for the founding queen sharing her nest
with all these rivals seems like madness
but the economics of desert survival is
a numbers game
and for the moment at least this
communal life is the key to her future
each queen now lays her first batch of
tiny eggs each no bigger than a pinhead
many new nests contain two or three
Queens limiting the initial brood to
less than 100 eggs but these 10 Queens
have produced well over 300 eggs and
when they hatch the colony will become
an instant superpower the founding Queen
this is the main advantage to taking in
lodgers
[Music]
if the eggs are not kept clean and
coated with antibiotic saliva they would
quickly be smothered by fungi and rot
away
the eggs soon hatch fed by the Queens
the voracious larvae that grow quickly
and then pupate a few weeks after the
eggs were laid the first tiny pail
workers emerge from these silky cocoons
all and workers are female and sterile
unable to reproduce themselves their
sole purpose in life is to serve the
Queens
they darken as their bodies become
harder and then they are ready to take
up their duties some stay underground
tending to the Queens and to the
remaining brood others head for the
surface for a first look at their
strange new world
[Music]
you